# CIBC - .NET Developer

## Job Description

We’re building a relationship-oriented bank for the modern world. We need talented, passionate professionals who are dedicated to doing what’s right for our clients.

At CIBC, we embrace your strengths and your ambitions so you are empowered at work. Our team members have what they need to make a meaningful impact and are truly valued for who they are and what they contribute.

To learn more about CIBC, please visit [CIBC.com](https://www.cibc.com/en/about-cibc.html)

## What you'll be doing

As a Software Engineer you will work with a team of experienced developers, system analysts, and QA testers developing complex, highly integrated, data-intensive custom software. The role performs tasks of technical depth, transforming business requirements into programming instructions, designing, coding and testing programs. You will be building software solutions using languages and technologies of the .NET framework. You will create and modify applications, configure existing systems and provide user support. In this role, you should be able to write functional code with a sharp eye for spotting defects. You should be a collaborator and excellent communicator. If you are also enthusiastic about the .NET framework and software design/architecture, we would like to meet you.

At CIBC we enable the work environment most optimal for you to thrive in your role. You will have the flexibility to manage your work activities within a hybrid work arrangement where you’ll spend 2-5 days per month on-site, while other days will be remote.

## Core responsibilities and competencies required

- Participate in requirements analysis.
- Collaborate with internal teams to produce software design and architecture.
- Write clean, scalable code using .NET programming languages.

## Essential technical skills

- You have 2-3 years as a proven .NET Developer or Application Developer Familiarity with the ASP.NET framework, SQL Server and design/architectural patterns (e.g. Model-View-Controller (MVC)).
- You have knowledge of at least one of the .NET languages (e.g. C#, Visual Basic .NET) and HTML5/CSS.
- You are familiar with architecture styles/APIs (REST, RPC) Understanding of Agile methodologies.
- Experience with MS Azure, Azure DevOps (ADO) and/or GIT is required. You should have familiarity with API architecture styles (REST, RPC), understanding of Agile methodologies, and excellent troubleshooting and communication skills. Ideally, you understand patterns of designing applications for cloud and have knowledge of Agile methodology and experience working in a Scrum team.

## It’s an asset if you are

- Fluent in Object Oriented Design, JSON and RESTFul web services, and have written Unit Test and UI Automation Tests.
- Excellent troubleshooting and communication skills Attention to detail
- Test and deploy applications and systems.
- Revise, update, refactor and debug code.
- Improve existing software.
- Develop documentation throughout the software development life cycle (SDLC)
- Serve as an expert on applications and provide technical support.
- BSc/BA in Computer Science, Engineering or a related field.
- AZ-900 certification preferred.
- You’re motivated by accomplishing your goals and delivering your best to make a difference.
- You find meaning in relationships and surround yourself with a diverse network of partners. You connect with others through respect and authenticity.
- You're passionate about growing your knowledge. You have a strong sense of curiosity.
- You bring your real self to work and you live our values - trust, teamwork, and accountability.

## What CIBC offers

At CIBC, your goals are a priority. We start with your strengths and ambitions as an employee and strive to create opportunities to tap into your potential. We aspire to give you a career, rather than just a paycheck.

- We work to recognize you in meaningful, personalized ways including a competitive salary, incentive pay, banking benefits, a benefits program*, a vacation offering, wellbeing support, and MomentMakers, our social, points-based recognition program.
- Our spaces and technological toolkit will make it simple to bring together great minds to create innovative solutions that make a difference for our clients.
- We cultivate a culture where you can express your ambition through initiatives like Purpose Day; a paid day off dedicated for you to use to invest in your growth and development.

<small>*Subject to plan and program terms and conditions</small>

## What you need to know

- IBC is committed to creating an inclusive environment where all team members and clients feel like they belong. We seek applicants with a wide range of abilities and we provide an accessible candidate experience. If you need accommodation, please contact Mailbox.careers-carrieres@cibc.com
- You need to be legally eligible to work at the location(s) specified above and, where applicable, must have a valid work or study permit.
- We may ask you to complete an attribute-based assessment and other skills tests (such as simulation, coding, MS Office). Our goal for the application process is to get to know more about you, all that you have to offer, and give you the opportunity to learn more about us.

## Courses

- [Azure Foundations*](https://app.datacamp.com/learn/skill-tracks/microsoft-azure-fundamentals-az-900)

- Azure Exam: [Microsoft Certified: Azure Fundamentals - Certifications*](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/credentials/certifications/azure-fundamentals/?practice-assessment-type=certification#certification-take-the-exam)

- (Azure) DevOps: [DevOps foundations: The core principles and practices AZ-2008 - Training | Microsoft Learn](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/training/paths/devops-foundations-core-principles-practices/)

- [C#](https://www.freecodecamp.org/learn/foundational-c-sharp-with-microsoft/)

- SQL: [SQL fundamentals](https://app.datacamp.com/learn/skill-tracks/sql-fundamentals) and [Introduction to SQL server](https://app.datacamp.com/learn/courses/introduction-to-sql-server)

- .NET: [Training for .NET | Microsoft Learn](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/training/dotnet/), and
[Build Web Apps with ASP.NET | Codecademy*](https://www.codecademy.com/learn/paths/build-web-apps-with-asp-net), and [Dotnet learning path](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/collections/w7gszt6r3k58q?sharingId=356602B54521E96E)

<small>*required</small>

## Books

- [Eloquent JavaScript](https://eloquentjavascript.net/)

## Deliverables:

- Design and implement a scalable software application or component.
- Create technical documentation for the software design and architecture (eg Functional Requirements).
- Develop unit and integration tests.